The Event Organizer is a mobile application that uses a calendar to help organize a user’s daily events. The application automatically sets the mobile device’s profile according to the event the user is currently attending. A user is responsible for entering events with the following basic information: event description, event location, event time, event date, repeat option (daily, weekly, monthly or yearly), reminder alarm (time, date, alarm type) and, profile. The italicized event information mentioned above is optional. The application itself will then run in the mobile device’s background. Whenever an event occurs, the application will automatically set the device to that event’s corresponding profile. When the event ends, the application will automatically set the device back to the initial profile i.e. the profile before the event occurred.
The optional information is for additional purposes used by the application. The event location is just for the user’s convenience when viewing the event. The repeat option is used to repeat the event everyday, every week, every month or every year. The reminder alarm is similar to a normal alarm where the user can set whether to ring, vibrate, or flash silently and display the event information at a specific time & date before the event occurs.

The application comes with a standard set of profiles i.e. Ring, Vibrate & Silent which are trivial to understand. The application also allows the user to create their own profiles where they can customize the ring tone, ring volume, notification volume & vibrate on/off.

What is a Profile: A profile is a setting in a mobile device that allows the user to customize the following: ringing tone, ringing volume, notification volume & vibrate on/off(and maybe some other status).